.TH D_LFS_MIGRATE 1 2013-07-20 fasrc " "


.SH NAME

d_lfs_migrate \- distributed, combined lsf find and lfs_migrate


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B d_lfs_migrate
.BR \-\-ost-number-base " BASE"
.BR \-\-ost " OST_NUMBER..."
PATH_TO_MIGRATE


.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
This is a tool to use for evacuating data from lustre OSTs or rebalancing data on OSTs when adding new ones.
The standard procedure for this -- walking the filesystem with `lfs find' and passing files to migrate to `lsf_migrate' -- is a serial operation that does not take advantage of lustre's parallel, high-performance nature.
This tool uses libdftw and MPI to parallelize this procedure.

.P
We've seen strong scaling efficiency of ~80% when running 20-way parallel on nodes already running mixed workloads, and thus far have stopped there without any further investigation or optimization... better performance is quite likely possible!

.P
All the normal preparations and warnings regarding lfs_migrate apply:
.IP \(bu
The files to be migrated must not be in use.
.IP \(bu
The OSTs should be deactivated on the MDS (but not on clients).
.IP \(bu
This does not migrate files with multiple hard links.
lfs_migrate can be made to, but this does not pass along those options.
See
.B lfs_migrate_hardlinks
in https://github.com/fasrc/lustre_utils/ for a better approach.

.P
This has not been tested on striped files, but it should work.
There are also some limits on ost and stripe count that have compile-time overrides (look at the code).

.P
This code does a fork/exec (when not running with
.B \-\-find-only
, which MPI will usually complain about at runtime.
You can suppress this warning (in OpenMPI) with: 
.P
.RS
-mca mpi_warn_on_fork 0
.RE

.P
For more on libdftw see:
.P
.RS
LaFon, Misra, Bringhurst. `On Distributed File Tree Walk of Parallel File Systems'
.RE
.RS
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2389114
.RE
.P
.RS
https://github.com/hpc/libcircle
.RE
.RS
https://github.com/hpc/libdftw
.RE


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-ost " OST_NUMBER"
Migrate files off of OST_NUMBER.
Specify multiple times if multiple OSTs are being migrated (hint: use shell brace expansion, e.g. -o{5..9}, to easily specify a range).

.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-ost-number-base " BASE"
The numeric base used to interpret OST_NUMBER.
Valid values are 10 and 16.
Since both are used by various other tools, this option is required, out of an abundance of caution.

.TP
.BR -n ", " \-\-find-only
Don't actually migrate the files, just print out the names of files that would be migrated.
This is analagous to lfs_migrate's -n, but lfs_migrate is not even called in this case.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short synopsis.


.SH REQUIREMENTS

.P
lustre 1.8.7 or compatible


.SH BUGS/TODO

.P
n/a


.SH AUTHOR
.P
Copyright (c) 2013
.RS
.RE
Harvard FAS Research Computing
.RS
.RE
John Brunelle <john_brunelle@harvard.edu>
.RS
.RE
All rights reserved.
